README.md, before:

# saline
Saturating arithmetic for Crystal

## Usage

The `Saturating` generic type lets you impose saturating arithmetic on any
`Number` type. This means that in any case when the wrapped type would overflow
or underflow, it instead clamps to the relevant boundary (the type's `MAX` in
case of overflow or `MIN` in case of underflow).

The code snippet below demonstrates this concept with an Int32:

```crystal
n = Saturating(Int32).new(Int32::MAX)
n += 1 # => 2147483647 (Int32::MAX)
n = Saturating(Int32).new(Int32::MIN)
n -= 1 # => -2147483648 (Int32::MIN)
```

## Development

This shard currently uses an initial pure-Crystal approach. While I want to
keep that approach around, saturating arithmetic is implemented already in
LLVM, which undergirds Crystal. I'd like to have create bindings to
[these functions](https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html#saturation-arithmetic-intrinsics)
eventually, with the ability to use each implementation as desired.

## Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/kinxer/saline/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Contributors

- [Benjamin Wade](https://github.com/kinxer) - creator and maintainer

Commit message:

Add small fixes to interface and documentation (#5)
* Clarify readme code snippet

Jhass suggested this change on the Crystal forum, and I agree that it
makes the snippet more clear.

* Update development intentions in the readme

* Put Saturating in the Saline module

Honestly, I hadn't realized this wasn't already the case.

* Restrict saturating multiplication to T

If T is Int32, you can't create a new Saturating(T) with a Float64
argument, but that's what happens if you multiply by a float. In the
future, I'd love to figure out a fix for this, but for now I'll disallow
it.

* Propagate code snippet to class docs

* Fix typo in development intentions

README.md, after:

# saline
Saturating arithmetic for Crystal

## Usage

The `Saturating` generic type lets you impose saturating arithmetic on any
`Number` type. This means that in any case when the wrapped type would overflow
or underflow, it instead clamps to the relevant boundary (the type's `MAX` in
case of overflow or `MIN` in case of underflow).

The code snippet below demonstrates this concept with an Int32:

```crystal
n = Saturating(Int32).new(Int32::MAX - 2)
n += 20 # => 2147483647 (Int32::MAX)

m = Saturating(Int32).new(Int32::MIN + 3)
m -= 30 # => -2147483648 (Int32::MIN)
```

## Development

This shard currently uses an initial pure-Crystal approach. However, saturating
arithmetic is implemented already in LLVM, which undergirds Crystal. I'd like
to create bindings to [these functions](https://llvm.org/docs/LangRef.html#saturation-arithmetic-intrinsics)
eventually, replacing the current implementation but keeping the same
interface.

## Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/kinxer/saline/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Contributors

- [Benjamin Wade](https://github.com/kinxer) - creator and maintainer
